Cond ref series triple branch (#49)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

{::include cddl/coswid-triple-record.cddl}
~~~

#### Conditional Reference Series Triple {#sec-comid-triple-cond-ref}

A Conditional Reference Series triple relates reference measurements to a Target
Environment where endorsed measurements are accepted given all reference measurements
are accepted. The triple subject is a compound statement consisting of a Target Environment
and initial Reference Values that MUST be satisfied before evaluating the triple object.

The triple object is a series of additional measurements that are evaluated in the order

> they appear in an array. The series has one or more records containing additional Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they appear in an array. The series has one or more member-records containing additional Reference
```

Values that may contain Endorsement values. If Evidence matches the additional Reference

> Values, both the additional Reference Values and the Endorsed values, if any, are accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Values in a record, the Endorsed values in that record, if any, are accepted.
```

Author: The scope of the term 'record' could be ambiguous unless it is defined better. Existing text uses 'additional' to disambiguate the other values in the triple object (which could be regarded as a 'record'), but so could any of the subordinate statements within the triple object.

Reviewer: This term 'record' is the one defined in preceding sentence "The series has one or more records containing ...".

Changing 'record' to 'member-record' could help eliminate ambiguity. I've updated my comments reflect the change.

> The first successfully accepted record from the `reference-endorsed-record` series terminates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first successfully accepted member-record from the `reference-endorsed-record` series terminates
```

> evaluation. If none of the additional Reference Values are accepted, then the entire triple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
evaluation. If none of the additional Reference Values are matched, then the entire triple
```

{::include cddl/coswid-triple-record.cddl}
~~~

#### Conditional Reference Series Triple {#sec-comid-triple-cond-ref}

A Conditional Reference Series triple associates conditional Reference Value measurements,

> and optionally Endorsement measurements to a Target Environment, where the endorsed measurements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and optionally Endorsement measurements, to a Target Environment, where the endorsed measurements
```

are accepted if all of the reference measurements are accepted.

The triple subject is a compound statement consisting of a Target Environment defined

> by `measurement-map`, and initial Reference Values, defined by `measurement-map`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by `environment-map`, and initial Reference Values defined by `measurement-map`,
```

that MUST be matched to Evidence before evaluating the triple object.
If the initial Reference Values do not match Evidence, the triple is not matched
and no Claims are accepted.

The `authorized-by` value in `measurement-map`, if present, applies to all measurements
in the triple including those in `conditional-series-record` records.

> The triple object is a series of additional measurements expressed as an array of

Reviewer 2: In my view we should have a simplified triple object that simply says that accept these values when the `subject matches`.

This PR makes the individual conditional checking within the object far too  complicated to have it in the main specifiction

`conditional-series-record` records that are evaluated in the order they appear in the array.
The additional Reference Values, in each record, are evaluated against Evidence. If the
Reference Values, in the first `measurement-values-map`, matches Evidence then the
optional Endorsement values, in the second `measurement-values-map`, are also accepted.
The first successfully matched record from the `conditional-series-record` array
terminates evaluation retaining the accepted Claims.

> If none of the records in the series are matched then no Claims are accepted and

Reviewer: I see that the term "claims" are used a few times. Wonder if it will be more clear to change all "endorsement measurements" to "endorsement claims"?

Author: A Claim is the combination of a named thing and its measurement(s). In this triple the triple subject is the named thing and the object is the set of measurements that are accepted. The measurement is more or less the triple object, but given a compound object like series records, the measurement could refer to either the reference or endorsed values. Given this understanding of Claim, does the proposed text still make sense?

Reviewer: Yes, the existing proposed text still make sense.

The stateful Target Environment is a triple subject that MUST be satisfied before the series triple object is
matched.

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/stateful-environment-record.cddl}
~~~

The series object is an array of `conditional-series-record` that has both Reference and Endorsed Values.
Each `conditional-series-record` record is evaluated in the order it appears in the series array.
The Endorsed Values are accepted if the Reference Values in a `conditional-series-record` matches Evidence.
The first `conditional-series-record` that sucessfully matches Evidence terminates the series and
the matching Reference Values as well as the Endorsed Values are accepted.
If none of the Reference Values in the series match Evidence, the triple is not matched,
and no Claims are accepted.

The `authorized-by` value in `measurement-map` in the stateful environment, if present,
applies to all measurements in the triple, including `conditional-series-record` records.

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/conditional-endorsement-series-triple-record.cddl}
~~~

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/conditional-series-record.cddl}
~~~

#### Conditional Endorsement Triple {#sec-comid-triple-cond-end}

> A Conditional Endorsement triple uses a stateful environment,`(i.e., stateful-environment-record`),

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Conditional Endorsement triple uses a stateful environment, (i.e., `stateful-environment-record`),
```

that identifies a Target Environment based on an `environment-map` plus the `measurement-map` measurements
that have matching Evidence.

The stateful Target Environment is a triple subject that MUST be satisfied before the Endorsed Values in the
triple object are accepted.

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/stateful-environment-record.cddl}
~~~

The `authorized-by` value in `measurement-map` in the stateful environment, if present,

> applies to all measurements in the triple, including those in `measurement-values-map`.

Reviewer 3: this does not apply here, right?

Author: Yes, because measurement-values-map measurements in the triple object are not qualified by a bounding `measurement-map` and because we said the scope of `authorized-by` is triple level scope. That implies the `authorized-by` in the `stateful-environment-record` applies to the triple object too.
